---
layout: postsResource
title: Why AVR? 
discription: on working with AVR 
category: resource
tag: attiny85

---

Thoughts on AVR as I begin to experiment.

---

## A book I am working from

I have been wanting to geti nto using microcontroller. I have been using Arduino for some project. I have been following this book "AVR Programming" written by Elliot Williams. This is my attempt for getting more close to microcontroller as an material. In the beggining of this book there is a manifesto. How this book is supposed to function.

here

This book is supposed to guide people to look at this medium as somewhere inbetween component and computer. So this prompted me to really thing about what is a component and what is a computer?

Component has a physical property which we can arrange. By arranging them in a cirtian way we can create cirtain beaviour of electricity. There often need other components to make up a bigger system. 

Computer is a arranged components in package for reliability and persision in electrical behavior. They can hold bits, they can remember things. Computer holds bits and compare them with other bits, which means they calculate. We can give meaning to held bits.
We can make a system that can hold bits and calculate with components but here computer is large package of components that are static in hardware and we can interact with one contained system throuh the layers of frameworks. 

So "between computer and the component" means that it has memeory and calculate and work from instruction in a packaged components. The difference here is that they are meant to interface with other components and to be integrated in larger system. 

I am hoping with learning and using AVR I can have a physical experience of computaiton and interigate what does it meant to work with memory. 



## Why AVR now?

What is attractive about AVR to me right now is that it provides ground for new experimentations. In a time of pandemic, it has been deficult to work towards a concrete goal or working towards someting. As far as art practice, feeling of uncertainty does not motivate me to work on a long term project. Something about way we make meaning in this medium by making a patters of held bits, and how ephemeral these meaning, it is somewhat comferting. Like a drawing in a sand. Bits don't hold meanig until we let them hold the meanings but they are also bit in themselves that are has a physical presence in a world, which means something. Microcontroller highlights the gap between granural qulity of world and our meanigs. Like an arrangement of starts and the image of constallations. Myabe this process of learning AVR will be something about coming in term with this gap and working with this meaning that realize through other body. 



## making my own curry rue

In terms of playground for experimentation, Arduino is successful in a sence that packaged system begginers and people who don't have a electrical engineeing background to easly get introduced this medium of microcontrollers. Like when I started to be interested to electronics and computers as part of my practice, Arduino gave me a sence of what it's like to work with these. It is important to note that Arduino have became such a symbolic form as a "thing". I have read somewhere that siad that "Arduino is AVR with armer on it." It is sort of like a bicycle with safety wheels or making a machaged ramen noodle. While it is a good thing as they are, the product of Arduino abstruct the idea of microcontroller, and the safety fietues obscure the inner working of this material. 

As it is mentioned in a book, "arduino is cheap high". It is a good analagy that I felt good about dipping my toes in the mictrocontroller world but overtime, I craved more closeness to the material and fundemental knowledge beyond librarys. To get a better at making curry it is sometimes good to make the rue from spices yourself than to use the curry mix. It is important to get a sence of whats actually in them and identify what quality of spice makes up these flavors. This new level of understanding will openup new ground for experimentations. 



## Urganomy of Arduino 

One of the quality Arduino and other packaged tool has is that they have cirtian urganomy to the form. Meaning, they assume what and how you are going to use them for. Arduino hardware, software, and teaching materials are designed with imagined use in mind. This is one of the reason Arduino produces thousands of similar cat feeder projects. Another consequence from this imagined used is a mergins of error. Many librarys, onboard hardware circuit, and brakout board are optimized for the imagined use and there are alot of fietures that protect user from failing. In a essey "Abstracting Craft" by Malcolm McLau, author taks about a resistance of material provide structure. We need feedback form material to recognize and experience the structure of material. So if the material don't fail, it is harder to experience the nature of the material. Failier of material is also a potential for poetic leap. Especially if I am considering this medium as a artistic medium, I have to be closer to the mergins of failier to be able to witnes new possibility of the material. 



## Memory

Going back to the idea of memory. Up to this point, I have been exploring my project Enviroment with out any microcontroller. I have started this projct with simple animal with rudamental sensory organ and threshold devices to trigger eachothers and create dynamic interactions. One of the idea I wanted to explore is an autonomy of these animals and colaboration with the performer. I have thought about memory and ways to make desisions to be a new topic but I did not wnat to work with Arduino or similar packaged design since it adds so much black box to the project. I wanted to explore memory in more rudamentary way (maybe I should also be working with binary counter, flipflop and shift register) and this was a good oppertuniy to take my time to make my own curry rue. 

This exploration also was prompted by another project of mine callded Electronic Entomology. I have been working with Integrated Circuits to create families of solar chirping insects and I have been thinking of insects that changes in behaviors over weeks and months. This changing behavior can result in development of charactor and personality. We will see what this material presents interms of possibility for new species of insects.


## Teaching material?

I am also interested in this medium as a teaching material. I have taught introduction to robotic class using Arduino but I have been wanting to be able to point to a direction in the end of the course. This could be a good thing to introduce at least how to program and use AVR chips outside of Arduino IDE environment. I will report back after this book and to think aobut how I would implement in teaching. 





 






